At this point, we've done pretty
extensive querying coverage for SQL.
So you can take pretty much all these
skills and move directly over to MySQL,
probably Oracle and some of these
other SQL based databases and
just fly with it right.
So now I've kind of,
I've taught you generic SQL stuff.
I'm going to move you into.
Postgres stuff,
specifically Postgres stuff.
And this is the part that like,
these are the reasons
why I chose Postgres to teach you versus
MySQL and some of those other ones.
So one of the really cool features of
Postgres is it's kind of ends up being
a multi paradigm database because it
has the ability to do unstructured data
within SQL.
And it's kind of a fascinating
way they chosen to do it.
You can actually store JSON
as a data type in Postgres.
And then Postgres knows
how to query JSON for you.
So you can have it this mixed,
like schema and
schemaless data that lives side
by side in the same thing.
So that's the cool thing
about this JSON data type.
Type is a doesn't have to have a schema so
you can put whatever you want in it.
And it kind of allows you to kind of blur
that line between what a document is and
what a record is across document and
SQL based databases.
This is, as far as I know,
very unique to Postgres.
I don't think this exists
in many SQL types.
So, one of the In fact, let's go back
over here if we look at this you
can see we have this rich content table
if I only put five records in here so
you can if you want to look at it,
just say select star from rich content.
And you'll see here it has a Content ID
a comment ID, and has content in it.
So the content ID is that it's unique.
In fact, let's go back over here
is it It's a unique primary key.
The comment ID refers to a comment.
And then the content is a JSON
data type and it's not known.
So imagine you're making a message
board anyone had the ability to embed
videos embed polls, and embed images, you
wanna have this rich content experience.
The way that you can do that
is with this JSON data type,
because these things are gonna
be kinda amorphous, right?
So if you look down here,
I have several of them out here.
This one's gonna be a poll and it's gonna
have a question, it's gonna have options.
Or this one's going to be a video and
it's going to be URL and
it's going to dimension to those videos.
So these various different types
of Rich Content are going to have
different kinds of things that
are going to associate with it.
So it's going to have this kind of,
it needs a schemaless way of expressing.
Our other option is to
have multiple tables.
One describes poles one describes videos.
One describes images and
then we're going to have to have some sort
of like connecting table in the middle.
That's going to be just a comment
idea of links to a particular type of
other common or like Rich Content ID,
you can express this in tables but
it gets messy and gross and
involves a lot of tables.
This is really nice because we can just
put everything in the same table and
just express it as JSON.
So that's kind of the use case for
this one is I have heterogeneous data is I
guess how I would describe that like
data that should live in the same table.
It's of a similar thing,
collection variety, but
might have different dimensions to it.
This is exactly what JSON is made for.
So, the symbols that you need to
get used to are these arrow types.
So let's just go ahead and
go write one right now.
So we're going to say select, content,
which is the name of the JSON.
Column, right content, this one here,
but I'm going to put minus and
then I'm gonna put angle bracket now,
my font here puts these down as one glyph.
But just know this is actually it's
my font combining them into one.
glyph right.
This is with the.
Cascadia code is a free
font put out by Microsoft.
So that's what that arrow means.
It just makes it more readable for me.
And then I want to select the type here,
right?
So this is something inside
of that JSON object.
So I'm going to select type Form.
Which under store content so now this is
going to go through each one of these and
it grabs out pole and video and
pull Image and Image, right?
Which makes sense if you look at
these pull video pull image and
the question mark column there
We didn't give it a name.
But we can go in here and
say as you know, content type right?
And now it's actually called content type
look a little bit more readable, right?
This is great.
This is really cool when we're now
querying JSON out of Postgres.
Another thing that this will do for
you this JSON data type,
it will enforce that you're
putting in proper JSON.
So if you try and Feed it like
a string of not well formed JSON,
it will rebel and say,
no, you won't do this.
This must be valid JSON.
Let's fathom for a moment that I'm making
some sort of like drop down selector for
my rich, you know,
experience to create these rich content.
And I want to have a drop down of all
the various different types that I
can support.
Well, I could do this.
This is exactly what I did.
But I have image in here twice.
I have pulled her twice.
It'd be nice if I could just
select the distinct ones right?
Well, lo and
behold there's something unsurprisingly
called select distinct like this.
And actually that that's a problem and
I meant to show you that so
what distinct does is like alright
distill this down to just the ones that
are you know the same one so what we wanna
get back as poll video and image and
we wanna leave out the duplicate so
we wanna D duplicate this set.
It'd be nice if we could do,
this, but the problem is that
the type that you get back here,
we assume that this is a string.
It looks like a string here,
but the problem is,
is it's actually not correct quite still
actually a JSON blackbox to postgres.
It doesn't know what to do with these.
You can see here it says, I don't have an
equality operator from type JSON because
it doesn't know what it is and refuses to
tell you what it is because it just won't
it doesn't know It could be something
different from every single one.
Now we could do something
like this where we say cast,
Type, as text.
Like that, and this will say,
hey, postgres, I'm positive.
What's coming out of here is text us
all the text operations here, and
that'll end up working.
Right?
And that's what this does.
Now it works.
Now we're getting distinct.
Just so you know.
This is the first time I'm showing you
distinct but distinct works everywhere.
Select distinct just will d
duplicate whatever returns to you.
So, This is burdensome, right?
This would be nice if we could just
get it as text in the first place and
we didn't have to do this
all this casting business.
Well, you can if you put
a second angle bracket there,
which again, I promise you, this is three
glyphs together if A minus sign and
two angle brackets, which my font
combines into this pretty arrow.
And it's just saying,
whatever you select out of this,
just cast it as a text immediately.
And you can see there,
it does actually end up doing that you
can see it even lacks those quotes.
Again, this is Postgres saying,
I don't know what comes out of JSON.
I don't you have to tell me explicitly
what is coming out of JSON or
I don't know what to do with it.
Whereas this one is just saying.
I know this is text cast it as text,
because you have to imagine, I mean,
let's let's do this, right.
If I Select content if
I select dimensions.
These ones don't have dimensions.
If you go back and
look at these up here Images and
videos have dimensions polls do not.
So these come back as no and
these come back as objects.
And this is Postgres.
Just saying,
I will give you whatever you ask for.
But if you asked me to do competitors and
operations in addition and
stuff like that, you got to tell
me a friend, I'm getting a string,
I'm getting a number, that kind of stuff.
>> It does the output from Postgres,
say five rows and Wi Fi, were returned.
No values comes as rows discuss?
>> Yeah.
So in this particular case.
There's these two poles don't
have heights and widths, but
they still get returned cuz we're
not trying it to exclude anything.
So it's gonna return
something from everything.
And it just won't return.
It'll return null for those ones.
So this is a no.
So if you wanted to get from
rich content where content
dimensions think you have to do this
is not no and there you go.
So you have to tell us like specifically,
I don't want any North things back.
That makes sense.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep.
Good question.
Other questions.
All righty Like you kind of spoiled
my next little section there.
So thanks for that.
Just kidding.
That's a good question.
But what I wanna do right now I want
to go and select all the heights and
widths for
things that have heights and widths.
So what I want to do is I
want to say select content.
Then I want to select from dimensions.
Because notice that that's nested, right?
And inside of 'dimensions'
I wanna get height,
Height' As height.
So notice the first one here,
this one, I'm using a single arrow.
Cuz I still want the JSON object,
I still wanna do I want to
access something deeper in it.
So I do single error here.
And then here, I know this is
the terminal of this particular,j
ason tree that I'm traversing.
So I'm asking for the height back.
This will give me the height back as
a string, and I'm using that as height.
We'll do the same thing for a width.
I need to do dimensions,
dimensions width as with.
Okay, from rich underscore
content where and
this is where I'm going
to say content is not no.
So where content dimensions is not Nmo.
And here you can see, this will give me
back all of the dimensions of my various
images and videos that have them.
t's going to exclude all the polls
that don't have dimensions
associated with them.
But I wanted to show you here,
this is how you do multi level,
right because these things can
have multiple layers of depth.
They can have arrays, they can have
all sorts of stuff as well and
this is how you do that.
And what I was originally
intending to do just put in here.
Fine, I can do that.
Comment ID and
this will give you back as well.
The comment ID.